# Instructions for building the Docker container from the Dockerfile and running code within the container

## Starting docker daemon within WSL2 or Linux OS
`sudo service docker start`

`sudo dockerd > /dev/null 2>&1 &`


## Building an image from the Dockerfile
If you changed the Dockerfile, you will have to build a new image and tag it. The following commad is used to build the image. The path to Dockerfile can be on Windows (/mnt/c) or WSL Linux filesystem. The syntax is:

`docker build -t drb-insal-gs:<tag> <path to Dockerfile>`

The tag should be a version, like `v0.1`. Every new build should use a new version number. Images can have multiple tags. The latest build should also have the `latest` tag.

Windows filesystem:

`docker build -t drb-insal-gs:v0.1 /mnt/c/users/jsmith/OneDrive\ -\ DOI/Documents/Projects/DRB-InlandSalinity/drb-inland-salinity-ml/docker/`

Linux filesystem: I cloned our repo to /home/jsmith/

`docker build -t drb-insal-gs:v0.1 /home/jsmith/drb-inland-salinity-ml/docker/`

### Tagging the container registry's image:
The tag format required for the registry is <registry repo name>:<tag>. This will allow you to push the image to the registry after it is built.

`docker build -t code.usgs.gov:5001/wma/wp/drb-inland-salinity-container:v0.1 /home/jsmith/drb-inland-salinity-ml/docker/`

## Running Rstudio in the container
For git repo stored in WSL or Linux directory:

`docker run --rm -p 8787:8787 -v <path_to_repo>:/home/<Linux_username>/<working_directory_name> -e USER="<Linux_username>" <container_name:tag>`

`docker run --rm -p 8787:8787 -v /home/jsmith/drb-inland-salinity-ml/:/home/jsmith/ -e USER="jsmith" drb-insal-gs:v0.1`

For git repo stored in Windows filesystem

`docker run --rm -p 8787:8787 -v /mnt/<path_to_repo>:/home/<USGS_username>/<working_directory_name> -e USER="<USGS_username>" <container_name:tag>`

`docker run --rm -p 8787:8787 -v /mnt/c/Users/jsmith/OneDrive\ -\ DOI/Documents/Projects/DRB-InlandSalinity/drb-inland-salinity-ml/:/home/jsmith -e USER="jsmith" drb-insal-gs:v0.1`

Explanation of options:
- -v mounts your files to the server
- --rm removes the container after the session ends
- -e sets environment information. USER is your username

Once the server has started:
1. your password will print to the screen
2. go to localhost:8787 in a browser 
3. put in your username (from the -e option above) and password (generated by the server)
4. use Rstudio in your browser as you normally would! You will start in the /home/<username>/ directory, which will show your mounted files.
5. When you're finished, exit Rstudio (top right button) and Ctrl+C in WSL2 to close the session


## Next Steps:
- How to run on HPCs. Example [here](https://code.usgs.gov/wwatkins/hpc_container_blog)
- How to run on a Mac
- Set up pushing image to GitLab registry and pull from there instead of building locally
- Set up docker-compose file to build